## Predict Next Word app
Author : Julia Phelps
<br>
Date   : October, 2016

<hr>

#### **Overview**

The **Predict Next Word** app is designed to do exactly what its name suggests:  
predict a new word in a sentence or phrase, based on a user-provided string of 
previous words. It uses a large amount of public-domain data from blogs, news 
feeds, and twitter feeds to generate accurate predictions based on commonly-used 
American English speech patterns. This application is designed to satisfy the 
requirements of the <u>Data Science Specialization Capstone Project</u>, offered 
by John Hopkins University through [Coursera.org](http://www.coursera.org), in 
partnership with [SwiftKey](https://swiftkey.com/en). 

This repository contains supplemental data and information for the project. 
Contents include:

* `rawCode.R` - the final raw code for the entire process, from processing the 
raw files to testing the prediction algorithm

* `description.md` - a version of the description file included with the app, 
which outlines the process involved in cleaning and processing the raw data, as 
well as how the prediction function in the app works

<br>

#### **Project Material**

The Shiny app **Predict Next Word** can be found here:

- [https://juliaphelps.shinyapps.io/predictNextWord_app/](https://juliaphelps.shinyapps.io/predictNextWord_app/)

The RPresentation slide deck associated with this app can be found here:

- [http://rpubs.com/juliaphelps/predictNextWord_app](http://rpubs.com/juliaphelps/predictNextWord_app)

A Github repository for the project can be found here:

- [https://github.com/juliaphelps/predictNextWord](https://github.com/juliaphelps/predictNextWord)

A milestone report was also created earlier in the project, which can be found 
here:

 - [http://rpubs.com/juliaphelps/206767](http://rpubs.com/juliaphelps/206767)

<br>

#### **Information about the Dataset**

Data used in this application originally comes from the HC Corpora, and a subset 
was provided directly from Coursera.org for the purposes of the project. Data 
was used with permission. For information on the original source of the data, 
please visit the following links:

 - [http://www.corpora.heliohost.org/](http://www.corpora.heliohost.org/)

 - [http://www.corpora.heliohost.org/aboutcorpus.html](http://www.corpora.heliohost.org/aboutcorpus.html)

The list of words/phrases that was used to perform profanity filtering can be 
found here:

 - [Shutterstock List of Dirty, Naughty, Obscene, and Otherwise Bad Words](https://github.com/LDNOOBW/List-of-Dirty-Naughty-Obscene-and-Otherwise-Bad-Words)

<br>

#### **Referenced Material**

There were two readings that were incredibly useful in developing this 
prediction application:

 - [Speech and Language Processing](http://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/)

<blockquote><blockquote><font size=2>Jurafsky, Dan, and James H. Martin. 
<i>Speech and Language Processing.</i> Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 
Pearson Education International, 2014. Print.</font></blockquote></blockquote>

 - [Large Language Models in Machine Translation](http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D07-1090.pdf)

<blockquote><blockquote><font size=2>Brants, Thorsten, et al. <i>Large Language 
Models in Machine Translation.</i> 2007.</font></blockquote></blockquote>

<br>

#### **Author**

This project was authored by Julia Phelps (juliaphelps@gmail.com) to satisfy the 
requirements of the Data Science Specialization Capstone Project, offered by 
John Hopkins University through [Coursera.org](http://www.coursera.org). 

*- October 2016*

<hr>
